UNITED STATES NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION REGION IV 611 RYAN PLAZA DRIVE, SUITE 400 ARLINGTON, TEXAS 76011-8064 November 15, 1999 Mr. J. V. Parrish (Mail Drop 1023) Chief Executive Officer Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 SUBJECT:  NRC INSPECTION REPORT 50-397/99-12 Dear Mr. Parrish: From October 25-28, 1999, an NRC inspection was conducted at your Washington Nuclear Project-2 reactor facility.  The enclosed report presents the scope and results of that inspection. Areas examined during this inspection included portions of your physical security program.  We determined that those areas inspected were being effectively implemented. In accordance with 10 CFR 2.790 of the NRC’s “Rules of Practice,” a copy of this letter and its enclosure will be placed in the NRC Public Document Room (PDR)." Should you have any questions or comments concerning this inspection, we will be pleased to discuss them with you. Sincerely, Original signed by Gail M. Good, Chief, Plant Support Branch Division of Reactor Safety Docket No.:  50-397 License No.: NPF-21 Enclosure: NRC Inspection Report No.  50-397/99-12 cc: Chairman Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council P.O. Box 43172 Olympia, Washington  98504-3172 Rodney L. Webring (Mail Drop PE08) Vice President, Operations Support/PIO Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 Greg O. Smith (Mail Drop 927M) Vice President, Generation Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 D. W. Coleman (Mail Drop PE20) Manager, Regulatory Affairs Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 Albert E. Mouncer (Mail Drop 1396) General Counsel Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 Paul Inserra (Mail Drop PE20) Manager, Licensing Energy Northwest P.O. Box 968 Richland, Washington  99352-0968 Perry D. Robinson, Esq. Winston & Strawn 1400 L Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.  20005-3502 Bob Nichols Executive Policy Division Office of the Governor P.O. Box 43113 Olympia, Washington  98504-3113 Bob Nichols State Liaison Officer Executive Policy Division Office of the Governor P.O. Box 43113 Olympia, Washington  98504-3113 E-Mail report to D. Lange (DJL) 
E-Mail report to NRR Event Tracking System (IPAS) 
E-Mail report to Document Control Desk (DOCDESK) 
bcc distrib. by RIV: 
bcc to DCD (IE04) 
Regional Administrator 
DRP Director 
DRS Director 
Branch Chief (DRP/E) 
Senior Project Inspector (DRP/E) 
Branch Chief (DRP/TSS) 
Branch Chief (DRS/PSB) 
Security Inspector (Dexter) 
WNP-2 Resident Inspector 
RIV File 
RITS Coordinator 
Elaine McNeil (NRR/DIPM/IOLB/IRSS)(MS:  012E-11) 
Ellen Poteat, OCFO/LFARB, (MS: TWFN 9E-10) 
DOCUMENT NAME: R:\_WN2\WN912RP.TWD       To receive copy of document, indicate in box: "C" = Copy without enclosures "E" = Copy with enclosures "N" = No copy Peer Review  RIV: PSB  C:DRS/PSB  C:DRP/E  DWSchaefer  TWDexter: nh  GMGood  LJSmith  11/    /99  11/     /99  11/     /99  11/    /99  * OFFICIAL RECORD COPY 
ENCLOSURE  U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION  REGION IV  Docket No.:  50-397  License No.:  NPF-21  Report No.:  50-397/99-12  Licensee:  Energy Northwest  Facility:  Washington Nuclear Project-2  Location:  3000 George Washington Way  Richland, Washington   Dates:  October 25-28, 1999  Inspector:  Thomas W. Dexter, Senior Physical Security Specialist  Plant Support Branch  Approved By:  Gail M. Good, Chief, Plant Support Branch  Division Reactor Safety  Attachment:  Supplemental Information  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Washington Nuclear Project-2 
NRC Inspection Report 50-397/99-12 
This routine, announced inspection focused on specific areas of the licensee’s physical security program.  These areas included review of alarm stations, communications, testing and maintenance, protected area detection aids, protected area assessment aids, vehicle barrier system, staffing levels, and corrective actions. Plant Support • 	The security program continues to be implemented in a very effective and performance•based manner.  The alarm stations were redundant and well protected.  Alarm station operators were alert and well trained.  Very good radio and telephone communication systems were maintained.  A sufficient number of portable radios were available for members of the security organization.  An excellent testing and maintenance program was conducted and documented.  Timely repair of security equipment resulted in a low number of compensatory postings.  Very good protected area barriers and detection systems were maintained.  During performance testing of the detection system at the protected area, all attempts to intrude into the protected area were detected. Assessment aids provided a complete assessment of the perimeter detection zones. An excellent vehicle barrier system was in place that was routinely inspected and effectively maintained.  Changes to security programs and plans were reported to the NRC within the required time.  Implementing procedures met the performance requirements in the physical security plan.  Security program management was effective (Sections S1.1, S1.2, S2.1, S2.2, S2.3, S2.4, S3.1, and S6.1) Report Details IV.  Plant Support S1 Conduct of Security and Safeguards Activities S1.1 Alarm stations a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.01) The alarm stations were inspected to determine compliance with the requirements of the security plan.  The areas inspected included the requirements and capabilities of the alarm stations, redundancy and diversity of stations, protection of the alarm stations, and systems security. b. Observations and Findings The inspector verified the redundancy and diversity of the alarm stations.  Action by one alarm station operator could not reduce the effectiveness of the security systems without the knowledge of the other alarm station operators.  The central alarm station and secondary alarm station were bullet resistant.  The inspector interviewed several of the alarm station operators and determined that they were properly trained and knowledgeable of their duties. c. Conclusions The alarm stations were redundant and well protected.  Alarm station operators were alert and well trained. S1.2 Communications a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.01) The communication capabilities were inspected to determine compliance with the requirements of the security plan.  The areas inspected included the operability of radio and telephone systems and the capability to effectively communicate with the local law enforcement agencies through both of the systems. b. Observations and Findings The inspector verified that the licensee had very good radio and telephone systems capable of meeting all communication requirements of the security organization.  The licensee maintained a sufficient number of portable radios for use by members of the security organization.  The licensee also had a maintenance program to insure that the batteries for the portable radios remained at maximum operating power. c. Conclusions Very good radio and telephone communication systems were maintained.  A sufficient number of portable radios was available for members of the security organization. S2 Status of Security Facilities and Equipment S2.1 Testing and Maintenance a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.02) The inspector reviewed selected portions of the testing and maintenance program to determine compliance with the requirements of the security plan. b. Observations and Findings Through interviews with security officers and supervisors and a review of records, the inspector determined that repairs to security equipment were completed in a timely manner.  The timely response to repair detection aids, access control equipment, vital area portals, alarm station equipment, and closed-circuit television cameras resulted in an extremely low number of compensatory postings. The inspector determined through interviews and a review of records that proper tests were conducted on the following:  closed-circuit television cameras alarm status checks, alarm station monitors, metal and explosive detectors, X-ray machines, alarm station equipment, protected area lighting, protected area fence, perimeter microwave zones , and protected and vital area portals. c. Conclusions An excellent testing and maintenance program was conducted and documented.  Timely repair of security equipment resulted in a low number of compensatory postings. S2.2 Protected Area Barrier and Detection Aids a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.02)) The inspector reviewed the protected area barriers and detection aids to determine compliance with the requirements of the physical security plan.  The areas inspected included the features of the protected area barriers and the design and capabilities of the detection aids system. b. Observations and Findings The inspector conducted a walkdown inspection of the protected area barriers and determined that the barriers were installed and maintained as described in the physical security plan.  Additionally, the inspector determined that the protected area barriers provided penetration resistance to both forced and surreptitious entry and was adequate to ensure delay of a potential adversary. The inspector observed the licensee’s test of the perimeter microwave system at selected locations around the protected area.  The detection system was well designed and maintained.  All attempts to intrude into the protected area were detected.  The licensee's tests were performance based (walking, rolling, crawling, simulated jumping, and running) to ensure that system failures were discovered and corrected.  Additionally, the inspector verified that all alarms annunciated in the continuously manned security alarm stations. c. Conclusions Very good protected area barriers and detection systems were maintained.  During performance testing of the detection system at the protected area, all attempts to intrude into the protected area were detected. S2.3 Assessment Aids a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.02) The inspector reviewed the assessment aids to determine compliance with the physical security plan.  The areas inspected included the closed-circuit television monitors located in the alarm stations. b. Observations and Findings The inspector observed the assessment aids during the hours of daylight on October 26, 1999, and during the hours of darkness on October 28, 1999, and determined that the assessment aids system was good.  The inspector verified through observation that the fixed closed-circuit television cameras were positioned to ensure proper coverage of the perimeter security alarm zones.  The inspector determined through interviews that licensee technicians provided excellent service support. c. Conclusions Assessment aids provided a complete assessment of the perimeter detection zones. S2.4 Vehicle Barrier System a. Inspection Scope (81700-02.02))  b. Observations and Findings The vehicle barrier system was inspected to determine compliance with the requirements of 10 CFR 73.55 (c)(7) - (8) and the physical security plan.The inspector determined by observation and discussion with the security staff that the vehicle barrier was installed and maintained in accordance with the licensee’s physical security plan.  The barrier was inspected frequently by security patrols, and a procedure was in place to insure that identified discrepancies were properly compensated for and corrective actions implemented in a timely manner. c. 	Conclusions An excellent vehicle barrier system was in place that was routinely inspected and effectively maintained. S3 	Security and Safeguards Procedures and Documentation S3.1 	Security Program Plans and Procedures a. 	Inspection Scope (81700-02.03)) The physical security plan and the implementing procedures were inspected to determine compliance with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.54(p) and the physical security plan. b. 	Observations and Findings The inspector determined that previous plan changes were reported to the NRC within the required time frame, and changes submitted did not reduce the effectiveness of the plan.  The inspector reviewed implementing procedures for adequacy, ensured that the licensee maintained an effective management system for the development and administration of procedures, and verified that changes to the procedures did not reduce the effectiveness of the licensee’s security program. c. 	Conclusions Changes to security programs and plans were reported to the NRC within the required time frame.  Implementing procedures met the performance requirements in the physical security plan. S6 	Security Organization and Administration S6.1 	Management Effectiveness a. 	Inspection Scope (81700-02.06) The effectiveness and adequacy of security program management were evaluated. b. 	Discussion The security program was managed by a well trained and highly qualified security staff. The quality of the facilities and equipment demonstrated management support of the security program.  The security program continues to be implemented in a very effective and performance-based manner. c. Conclusion Security program management was effective. S8 Miscellaneous Security and Safeguards issues (92904) S8.1 	(Closed) Inspection Followup Item 397/9901-01:  Relocation of Armed Response Personnel During a previous security inspection, the inspector determined that the licensee was relocating armed response personnel from designated response positions to other locations to compensate for degraded security equipment.  This practice may have invalidated the licensee’s response time to both the responders’ contingency weapons and to plant equipment target sets. During this inspection, the inspector determined that the licensee had implemented an effective change to its response positions.  The licensee now continuously maintains a defensive posture that denies an adversary access into the vital areas.  The licensee’s Denial Plan Guide, Revision 2, dated April 19, 1999, was reviewed and it designated specific positions that must be continuously posted at all times.  The inspector also determined from discussions with security force members that training had been conducted on the new tactical deployment. V.  Management Meetings X1 	Exit Meeting Summary The inspector presented the inspection results to members of licensee management at the conclusion of the inspection on October 28, 1999.  The licensee acknowledged the findings presented.  No propriety information was identified. ATTACHMENT 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION PARTIAL LIST OF PERSONS CONTACTED Licensee J. Fisher, Security Lieutenant M Gilley, Security Compliance Specialist R. Givin, Supervisor, Security Force J. Gloyn, Security Supervisor, Fitness for Duty/Access Authorization V. Harris, Assistant Manager, Maintenance P. Inserra, Manager, Licensing D. Martin, Manager, Security Programs S. Oxenford, Manager, Operations C. Peterson, Safeguards Specialist R. Webring, Vice President, Operations Support R. Yule, Security Sergeant INSPECTION PROCEDURES USED  IP 81700  Physical Security Program for Power Reactors  IP 92904  Followup - Plant Support  ITEMS OPENED, CLOSED AND DISCUSSED Opened 
None. 
Closed 
50-397/99-01 IFI Relocation of Armed Response Personnel (Section S8.1) 
LIST OF LICENSEE DOCUMENTS REVIEWED WNP-2 Physical Security Plan, Revision 40. Security Plan Implementing Procedure SEC-01, “Sergeant and Lieutenant Duties, Revision 2, dated August 3, 1999. Security Plan Implementing Procedure SEC-02, “Central and Secondary Alarm Stations, Revision 2, dated May 11, 1999. Security Plan Implementing Procedure SEC-09, “Intrusion Detection System Alarms, Annunciators, Operability Tests, Inspection and Maintenance Records, Revision 1, dated March 2, 1998. Security Plan Implementing Procedure SEC-10, “Special Purpose Detectors, Operability Test, Inspection and Maintenance Records," Revision 1, dated October 23, 1998. Denial Plan Guide, Revision 2, dated April 19, 1999. Security Plan Implementing Procedure SEC-03, “Response Team Leader, Owner Controlled Area Mobile Patrol, Mobile and Walking Patrols,” Revision 2, July 15, 1999. Response Force Drill records from January through September 1999. Testing and Maintenance Records for the Metal Detectors, Explosive Detectors, X-Ray Machines, and Protected and Vital Area Detection and Assessment Aids. 