.¥EMERGY 
NORTHWEST p.o. Box 968 ¥ Richland, Washington 99352-0968 August 1, 2000 G02-00-131 Docket No. 50-397 u.s. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Attn: Document Control Desk Washington, DC 20555 Gentlemen: Subject: 	WNP-2, OPERATING LICENSE NPF-21 LICENSEE EVENT REPORT NUMBERS 2000-004-00 AND 2000-005-00 Transmitted herewith are Licensee Event Report (LER) Numbers 2000-004-00 and 2000-005-00 for WNP-2. These reports are submitted pursuant to 10 CFR 50.73. These reports discuss the items of reportability, corrective action taken, and actions to preclude recurrence. The LERs noted above were to be submitted on July 27,2000, per 10 CFR 50.73. The submittal date was extended to August 1, 2000, per telephone conversation with NRC Region IV on July 27,2000. The extension ofLER submittals is provided for in NUREG 1022, Revision 1. Should you have any questions or desire additional information pertaining to these reports, please call me or P.l Inserra at (509) 377-4147. Respectfully, 6dcL 
G.O. Smith Vice President, Generation Mail Drop 927M Attachments cc:  EW Merschoff-NRC-RIV  NRC Senior Resident Inspector -927N (2)  JS Cushing -NRC-NRR  DL Williams -BPN1399  INPO Records Center  TC Poindexter -Winston & Strawn  LICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) Failure To Reset An Isolation Signal Caused An ESF Signal to Be Generated That Resulted In The Closure Of All Eight MSIVs While The Plant Was Shutdown  FACILITY NAME (1)  IDOCKET NUMBER (2 ) I  LER NUMBER (6)  PAGE (3)  WNP-2  50-397  YEAR  SEQUENTIAL NUMBER  REVISION NUMBER  2 OF 4 00  004  00  TEXT (If more space is required, use additional copies of NRC Form 366A) (17) Eyent Description On June 27, 2000 at 0530 hours the plant was in Mode 4, cold shutdown. The operations crew was performing work in support of an electrical surveillance of the Reactor Protection System (RPS) [JC] Electrical Protection Assembly (EPA) circuit breakers. Residual heat removal (RHR) [BO] pump [P] 2B had been secured from shutdown cooling, per procedure, in support ofthe surveillance test. The power supply for the RPS ItB It bus was transferred from the alternate power supply to the normal power supply in support ofthe surveillance test. Note: When the power supply for the RPS ItB" bus is shifted from either normal to alternate or from alternate to normal, a half scram signal and a ItB" nuclear steam supply shutoff system (NSSSS) [BD] trip signal is generated. The RPS Power Source Selector Switch is a break before make switch. All eight Main Steam Isolation Valves (MSIVs) [1M] will close whenever both "A" and "B" trip systems are activated. Closure of all eight MSIV s is considered actuation of an Engineered Safety Feature (ESF) [JE]. The half scram logic had been reset. However, the NSSSS isolation logic was inadvertently not reset as part of the restoration activities following the RPS "B" bus power supply transfer. When the RPS "A" bus was de¥energized as part of the planned transfer to the alternate power supply it caused the itA" NSSSS trip logic relays to de-energize. This resulted in a closure signal to the MSIV s and all eight MSIV s closed. There were no safety consequences associated with this event. This event is being reported per the requirement of lOCFRSO.73(a)(2)(iv) as an event or condition that resulted in an automatic actuation of an Engineered Safety Feature. The ESF actuation was not caused by a valid signal. However, the actuation occurred while the isolation system was in service. The resident NRC inspector was notified. The NRC Operations Center was notified of the unexpected ESF actuation by means of the Emergency Notification System (ENS). The notification Event Number is 37121. The ENS notification cited 1 OCFR50.72(b )(2)(ii), ESF actuation. Immediate Corrective Action The NSSSS logic was reset. An Incident Review Board (IRB) investigated the event. further Eyaluation The IRB determined that the reactor operator (CR02) assigned to the task of transferring the RPS "B" power supply from alternate to normal and then transferring the RPS "A" power supply from normal to alternate, for this evolution, had reviewed the procedure and provided a pre-job brief. The pre-job brief by CR02 covered the steps that other operators would complete in support of the evolution. The steps that CR02 would complete were summarized. In addition, earlier in the shift, the shift manager reviewed the isolation and trip signals that would be involved, and the need to reset them, with the control room supervisor (CRS).  !lICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) Failure To Reset An Isolation Signal Caused An ESF Signal to Be Generated That Resulted In The Closure Of All Eight MSIV s While The Plant Was Shutdown FACILITY NAME (1) LER 	NUMBER (6) PAGE (3) YEAR SEQUENTIAL REVISION NUMBER NUMBER 3 	OF 400450-397 00 00WNP-2 TEXT (If more space is required, use additional copies of NRC Form 366A) (17) During the evolution, CR02 had the appropriate procedure in hand and was marking off steps as they were completed. When the appropriate equipment was secured, CR02 transferred the RPS "B" bus power supply from alternate to normal and reset the half scram and the main steam line radiation monitor trips per the procedure. The next step in the procedure was to reset the NSSSS isolation signal. As CR02 was preparing to reset the NSSSS isolation signal he was distracted by conversation with the CRS and CROI regarding how the surveillance would proceed. When the conversation was completed, CR02 did not return to the place marked in the procedure indicating the steps that were completed. CR02 proceeded to transfer the RPS "A" bus power supply from normal to alternate. When the ~before ~power source selector switch was operated an "A" half scram occurred and an "A" NSSSS isolation signal was generated. This caused an MSIV isolation signal to be generated as the "B" NSSSS signal had not been reset and all eight MSIVs closed at 0530 hours. ~ The contributing cause of this event is procedure noncompliance. An operator failed to complete a step in a procedure which would have reset the isolation logic and precluded the closure ofthe MSIV s. The root cause is ineffective oversight to consistently reinforce standards and expectations for this operating crew. The CRS displayed a reluctance to reinforce some management expectations for requiring a thorough pre-job brief for infrequently performed tasks (such as transferring RPS power), strict procedural compliance and proper peer checking. The Shift Manager failed to provide adequate coaching to establish this desired behavior in the CRS. Further Corrective Action 1. 	The Operations Manager and or the Operations Crew Manager reviewed this event and its underlying causes with management from each operating crew. 2. 	The Reactor Operator involved in this event was removed from "at the controls" duties pending remediation. 3. 	The CRS involved in this event has been removed from License duties pending remediation. 4. 	The SM involved in this event is attending a 5-week leadership training program which focuses on setting, communicating and reinforcing expectations. Assessment of Safety ConseQJlences There were no safety consequences associated with this event. The closure of the MSIV s while in Mode 4 did not impact plant safety because reactor coolant system temperature was limited to less than 2000 F. The control rods were fully inserted at the time of the MSIV closure. The Emergency Core Cooling Systems that are required by technical specifications were available to perform their intended safety functions. This event did not represent a threat to the health and safety of the public or plant personnel. The significance of this event was evaluated and Energy Northwest has determined it meets the criteria for designation as a Green finding. LICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) Failure To Reset An Isolation Signal Caused An ESF Signal to Be Generated That Resulted In The Closure Of All Eight MSIVs While The Plant Was Shutdown  FACILITY NAME (1)  DOCKET NUMBER (2)  LER NUMBER (6)  PAGE (3)  WNP-2  50-397  YEAR  SEQUENTIAL NUMBER  REVISION NUMBER  4 OF 4 00  004  00  TEXT (If more space is required. use additional copies of NRC Form 366A) (17) The event did not involve a loss of intended safety function. In addition, the event did not involve an event or condition that alone could have prevented the fulfillment of any safety functions described in lOCFR50.73(a)(2)(v). Similar Eyents LER 2000-005-00 reports an event that occurred on June 27, 2000, at 1529, which involved the inadvertent closure the inboard and outboard (all eight) MSIVs while the plant was in Mode 4. The ESF actuation was caused by a failure to follow a procedure in that an operator failed to completely bypass a nuclear steam supply shutoff system isolation signal. Both events involved the same operating crew. The root cause of each event is similar in that there was ineffective oversight to consistently reinforce standards and expectations for this operating crew.  --~--¥LICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) Failure To Completely Bypass The Low Condenser Vacuum Trip Caused An ESF Signal to Be Generated and Resulted In The Closure Of All Eight MSIV s While The Plant Was Shutdown  I FACIL:p~: (1) IDOC:TO~U:E: (2) I : LE:E;::L(6) ~O~ 2 PAG~F(3) 3 TEXT (If more space is required, use additional copies of NRC Form 366A) (17) Event Description On June 27, 2000 at 1529 with the plant in Mode 4, plant operators were performing a reactor cooldown. The reactor cooldown procedure requires four condenser low vacuum isolation logic key lock switches to be placed in the bypass position prior to breaking condenser vacuum. An operator was directed to bypass the low vacuum trip. The operator incorrectly placed only the C and D logic channels in bypass, leaving channels A and B in the normal position. When the main condenser vacuum was broken, an NSSSS isolation signal was generated closing all eight MSIV s. There were no safety consequences associated with this event. This event is being reported in accordance with lOCFRSO.73(a)(2)(iv) as an event or condition that resulted in an automatic actuation of an Engineered Safety Feature (ESF). The actuation occurred while the isolation system was in service. The resident NRC inspector was notified of this event. The NRC Operations Center was notified of the unexpected ESF actuation by means of the Emergency Notification System (ENS). The Event Number is 37125. Immediate Corrective Action The low condenser vacuum isolation logic channels A and B were placed in bypass. Further Evaluation A reactor operator was directed to bypass the low condenser vacuum trip. The step required placing four keylock switches, channels A-D, in the bypass position. The operator checked out two keys, one for the channel C switch and one for channel D switch, and placed only channels C and D key lock switches in the bypass position. When the main condenser vacuum was broken an unanticipated NSSSS signal was generated and all eight MSIV s closed. Cause The contributing cause of this event is procedure noncompliance. The operator assigned to bypass the low condenser vacuum trip placed only the C and D channels in bypass, leaving channels A and B in the normal position. This resulted in the incomplete bypass of isolation logic that would have precluded the closure of the MSIVs. The root cause ofthis event is ineffective oversight to consistently reinforce standards and expectations for this operating crew. Further Corrective Action 1. The Operations Manager and or the Operations Crew Manager reviewed this event and its underlying causes with management from each operating crew. 2. The Reactor Operator involved in this event is completing remediation which includes increased supervisory oversight.  LICENSEE EVENT REPORT (LER) Failure To Completely Bypass The Low Condenser Vacuum Trip Caused An ESF Signal to Be Generated and Resulted In The Closure Of All Eight MSIVs While The Plant Was Shutdown  FACILITY NAME (i)  DOCKET NUMBER (2)  LER NUMBER (6)  PAGE (3)  WNP-2  50-397  YEAR  SEQUENTIAL NUMBER  REVISION NUMBER  3 OF 3 00  005  00  TEXT (If more space is required, use additional copies of NRC Form 366A) (17) 3. The CRS involved in this event has been removed from License duties pending remediation. 4. The SM involved in this event is attending a 5-week leadership training program which focuses on setting, communicating and reinforcing expectations. Assessment of Safety Consequences There were no safety consequences associated with this event. The closure of the MSIV s while in Mode 4 did not impact plant safety because reactor coolant system temperature was less than 2000 F and the control rods were fully inserted. The Emergency Core Cooling Systems required by technical specifications were available and capable of performing their intended safety functions. This event did not pose a threat to the health and safety of the public or plant personnel. The significance of this event was evaluated and Energy Northwest has determined it meets the criteria for designation as a Green finding. The event did not involve a loss of intended safety function. In addition, the event did not involve an event or condition that alone could have prevented the fulfillment of any safety functions described III 1OCFR50.73(a)(2)(v). Similar Events LER 2000-004-00 reported an event that occurred on June 27, 2000, at 0530, which involved the inadvertent closure the inboard and outboard (all eight) MSIVs while the plant was in Mode 4. The ESF actuation was caused by a failure to follow a procedure in that an operator failed to reset a nuclear steam supply shutoff system trip signal. Both events involved the same operating crew. The root cause of each event is similar in that there was ineffective oversight to consistently reinforce standards and expectations for this operating crew.  